# Contribution

If you want to contribute with the library solving any issue, proposing a new feature or even adding your custom modifications it's important to keep the following subtopics in mind that will help you to setup the project locally and follow different guidelines related with the style, testing, and documentation.

## Setup the project locally

To setup the project locally you've just to follow the simple steps below:

1. Clone the repo with `git clone https://github.com/SugarRecord/SugarRecord.git`
2. Update the git submodules with `git submodule update --init`
3. Execute `pod install` in the `project/` folder

Once done, open the project using the `.xcworkspace` file in the `/project` folder. 

## Project structure

The project is organized in the following schemes:

- **SugarRecordTests:** *Testing target*. Includes all project files and dependency frameworks like Restkit, Realm, ... In case you add new files to the project you must ensure those files are included in the target **SugarRecordTest**. This target is only for testing so you can't either run or build there.
- **SRCoreData:**  *Framework target*. Includes all the library files related with CoreData (stacks, extensions, ...). New files related with CoreData should be added to this target (apart from the **SugarRecordTests** target)
- **SRRealm:** *Framework target*. Includes all the library files related with Realm (stacks, extensions, ...). New files related with Realm should be added to this target (apart from the **SugarRecordTests** target). *Note: This target is liked with the Realm library which is downloaded through **git submodules** and added as .framework*

## Testing

Any new feature/modification should be tested. Tests ensure that the code behaves regarding the expectations and that nothing is broken after changing other components. SugarRecord uses directly XCTest for testing without any library for expectations nor mocking. This way the framework doesn't depend on any existing framework but the native one and we can easily stick to the future Apple updates.

*Note: We recommend you to apply TDD when you develop a new feature. Think about what you are planning to add, and then about the logic that should manage the feature you thought about* 

## Documentation


## PR Requirements

## Issues/PR Management











### Documentation
- The best way to follow the docummentation patterns is using the plugin for XCode VVDocumenter.
- SugarRecord uses [**Swift-playground-builder**](https://github.com/jas/swift-playground-builder) to generate a playground tutorial from a markdonw file, . If you have done any important change that deserves an explanation in the tutorial add it!. To do it:
```bash
# Install Node.js
npm install -g swift-playground-builder
playground docs/tutorial.md -d docs/ -p ios
```
- Library documentation is generated by CocoaDocs automatically based on the code comments. If you want to preview it locally:

```bash
# Clone the repo
git clone https://github.com/CocoaPods/cocoadocs.org
# Run in the repo directory
bundle install
# Preview the library with
bundle exec ./cocoadocs.rb preview SugarRecord
```


### Take into account for your PR proposals

- Changes in the library should be properly documented and tested, **changes without documentation comments and tests won't be accepted**
- The code should follow this style guideline: https://github.com/SugarRecord/swift-style-guide